#summary This is taken from the lecture notes given on the second day of class.

== Project description ==
Form a team of five to create and implement an innovative little language of your own design.
Each team member must write at least 500 lines of code for the compiler.
Project constitutes 40% of final grade.
==Project team==
Elect people to serve the following functions:
  * Project manager: This person sets the project schedule, holds weekly meetings with the entire team, maintains the project log, and makes sure the project deliverables get done on time.
  * Tools guru: This person teaches the team how to use the compiler construction tools.
  * System architect: This person defines the compiler architecture, modules, and interfaces.
  * System integrator: This person defines the system integration environment and makes sure the compiler components work together.
  * Tester and validator: This person defines the test suites and executes them to make sure the compiler meets the language specification.
==Project due dates and deliverables==
  * Feb. 27: Language white paper (written by entire team, 3-5 pages).
    ** See http://java.sun.com/docs/overviews/java/java-overview-1.html for a sample white paper on Java.
  * Mar. 26: Language tutorial (written by entire team, 15-20 pages).
    ** Chapter 1 of Kernighan and Ritchie is a good model of a language tutorial.
    ** Describe a few representative programs that illustrate the nature and scope of your language.
    ** A "hello, world" program is de rigueur.
  * Mar. 26: Language reference manual (written by entire team, 25-35 pages).
    ** Appendix A of Kernighan and Ritchie is a good model.
    ** Give a complete description of the lexical and syntactic structure of your language.
    ** Include a full grammar for your language.
  * Apr 28 and 30: Ten-minute project presentations in class.
  * May 12-13: Working compiler and demo.
  * May 12-13: Final project report due at project demo.
==Team Name==
Give your team a name. Let Akshay Pundle (ap2503@columbia.edu) know your team name, who is on your team, and what role each team member is playing by Feb 4. Contact Akshay to get help in forming teams.